Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince – J.K. Rowling
“Yeah … yeah, now Umbridge has left, obviously we
need a new Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher,
don’t we? So, er, what’s he like?”
“He looks a bit like a walrus, and he used to be Head
of Slytherin,” said Harry. “Something wrong,
Hermione?”
She was watching him as though expecting strange
symptoms to manifest themselves at any moment.
She rearranged her features hastily in an
unconvincing smile.
“No, of course not! So, um, did Slughorn seem like
he’ll be a good teacher?”
“Dunno,” said Harry. “He can’t be worse than
Umbridge, can he?”
“I know someone who’s worse than Umbridge,” said a
voice from the doorway. Ron’s younger sister slouched
into the room, looking irritable. “Hi, Harry.”
“What’s up with you?” Ron asked.
“It’s her, ” said Ginny, plonking herself down on
Harry’s bed. “She’s driving me mad.”
“What’s she done now?” asked Hermione
sympathetically.
“It’s the way she talks to me — you’d think I was
about three!”
“I know,” said Hermione, dropping her voice. “She’s so
full of herself.”
Harry was astonished to hear Hermione talking about
Mrs. Weasley like this and could not blame Ron for
Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince – J.K. Rowling
saying angrily, “Can’t you two lay off her for five seconds?”
“Oh, that’s right, defend her,” snapped Ginny. “We all
know you can’t get enough of her.”
This seemed an odd comment to make about Ron’s
mother. Starting to feel that he was missing
something, Harry said, “Who are you — ?”
But his question was answered before he could finish
it. The bedroom door flew open again, and Harry
instinctively yanked the bedcovers up to his chin so
hard that Hermione and Ginny slid off the bed onto
the floor.
A young woman was standing in the doorway, a
woman of such breathtaking beauty that the room
seemed to have become strangely airless. She was tall
and willowy with long blonde hair and appeared to
emanate a faint, silvery glow. To complete this vision
of perfection, she was carrying a heavily laden
breakfast tray.
“ ’Arry,” she said in a throaty voice. “Eet ’as been too
long!”
As she swept over the threshold toward him, Mrs.
Weasley was revealed, bobbing along in her wake,
looking rather cross.
“There was no need to bring up the tray, I was just
about to do it myself!”
“Eet was no trouble,” said Fleur Delacour, setting the
tray across Harry’s knees and then swooping to kiss
him on each cheek: He felt the places where her
mouth had touched him burn. “I ’ave been longing to
see ’im. You remember my seester, Gabrielle? She
Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince – J.K. Rowling
never stops talking about ’Arry Potter. She will be delighted to see you
again.”
“Oh … is she here too?” Harry croaked.
“No, no, silly boy,” said Fleur with a tinkling laugh, “I
mean next summer, when we — but do you not
know?”
Her great blue eyes widened and she looked
reproachfully at Mrs. Weasley, who said, “We hadn’t
got around to telling him yet.”
Fleur turned back to Harry, swinging her silvery sheet
of hair so that it whipped Mrs. Weasley across the
face.
“Bill and I are going to be married!”
“Oh,” said Harry blankly. He could not help noticing
how Mrs. Weasley, Hermione, and Ginny were all
determinedly avoiding one another’s gaze. “Wow. Er
— congratulations!”
She swooped down upon him and kissed him again.
“Bill is very busy at ze moment, working very ’ard,
and I only work part-time at Gringotts for my
Eenglish, so he brought me ’ere for a few days to get
to know ’is family properly. I was so pleased to ’ear
you would be coming — zere isn’t much to do ’ere,
unless you like cooking and chickens! Well — enjoy
your breakfast, ’Arry!”
With these words she turned gracefully and seemed to
float out of the room, closing the door quietly behind
her.
Mrs. Weasley made a noise that sounded like “tchah!”
Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince – J.K. Rowling
“Mum hates her,” said Ginny quietly.
“I do not hate her!” said Mrs. Weasley in a cross
whisper. “I just think they’ve hurried into this
engagement, that’s all!”
“They’ve known each other a year,” said Ron, who
looked oddly groggy and was staring at the closed
door.
“Well, that’s not very long! I know why it’s happened,
of course. It’s all this uncertainty with You-Know-Who
coming back, people think they might be dead
tomorrow, so they’re rushing all sorts of decisions
they’d normally take time over. It was the same last
time he was powerful, people eloping left, right, and
center —”
“Including you and Dad,” said Ginny slyly.
“Yes, well, your father and I were made for each other,
what was the point in waiting?” said Mrs. Weasley.
“Whereas Bill and Fleur … well … what have they
really got in common? He’s a hardworking, down-toearth sort of person, whereas she’s —”
“A cow,” said Ginny, nodding. “But Bill’s not that
down-to-earth. He’s a Curse-Breaker, isn’t he, he
likes a bit of adventure, a bit of glamour. … I expect
that’s why he’s gone for Phlegm.”
“Stop calling her that, Ginny,” said Mrs. Weasley
sharply, as Harry and Hermione laughed. “Well, I’d
better get on. … Eat your eggs while they’re warm,
Harry.”
Looking careworn, she left the room. Ron still seemed
slightly punch-drunk; he was shaking his head
Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince – J.K. Rowling
experimentally like a dog trying to rid its ears of water.
“Don’t you get used to her if she’s staying in the same
house?” Harry asked.
“Well, you do,” said Ron, “but if she jumps out at you
unexpectedly, like then …”
“It’s pathetic,” said Hermione furiously, striding away
from Ron as far as she could go and turning to face
him with her arms folded once she had reached the
wall.
“You don’t really want her around forever?” Ginny
asked Ron incredulously. When he merely shrugged,
she said, “Well, Mum’s going to put a stop to it if she
can, I bet you anything.”
“How’s she going to manage that?” asked Harry.
“She keeps trying to get Tonks round for dinner. I
think she’s hoping Bill will fall for Tonks instead. I
hope he does, I’d much rather have her in the family.”
“Yeah, that’ll work,” said Ron sarcastically. “Listen,
no bloke in his right mind’s going to fancy Tonks
when Fleur’s around. I mean, Tonks is okay-looking
when she isn’t doing stupid things to her hair and her
nose, but —”
“She’s a damn sight nicer than Phlegm, ’’ said Ginny
“And she’s more intelligent, she’s an Auror!” said
Hermione from the corner.
“Fleur’s not stupid, she was good enough to enter the
Triwizard Tournament,” said Harry.
Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince – J.K. Rowling
“Not you as well!” said Hermione bitterly.
“I suppose you like the way Phlegm says ‘’Arry,’ do
you?” asked Ginny scornfully.
“No,” said Harry, wishing he hadn’t spoken, “I was
just saying, Phlegm — I mean, Fleur —”
“I’d much rather have Tonks in the family,” said
Ginny. “At least she’s a laugh.”
“She hasn’t been much of a laugh lately,” said Ron.
“Every time I’ve seen her she’s looked more like
Moaning Myrtle.”
“That’s not fair,” snapped Hermione. “She still hasn’t
got over what happened … you know … I mean, he
was her cousin!”
Harry’s heart sank. They had arrived at Sirius. He
picked up a fork and began shoveling scrambled eggs
into his mouth, hoping to deflect any invitation to join
in this part of the conversation.
“Tonks and Sirius barely knew each other!” said Ron.
“Sirius was in Azkaban half her life and before that
their families never met —”
“That’s not the point,” said Hermione. “She thinks it
was her fault he died!”
“How does she work that one out?” asked Harry, in
spite of himself.
“Well, she was fighting Bellatrix Lestrange, wasn’t
she? I think she feels that if only she had finished her
off, Bellatrix couldn’t have killed Sirius.”
“That’s stupid,” said Ron.
Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince – J.K. Rowling
“It’s survivor’s guilt,” said Hermione. “I know Lupin’s tried to talk her
round, but she’s still really down.
She’s actually having trouble with her
Metamorphosing!”
“With her — ?”
“She can’t change her appearance like she used to,”
explained Hermione. “I think her powers must have
been affected by shock, or something.”
“I didn’t know that could happen,” said Harry.
“Nor did I,” said Hermione, “but I suppose if you’re
really depressed …”
The door opened again and Mrs. Weasley popped her
head in. “Ginny,” she whispered, “come downstairs
and help me with the lunch.”
“I’m talking to this lot!” said Ginny, outraged.
“Now!” said Mrs. Weasley, and withdrew.
“She only wants me there so she doesn’t have to be
alone with Phlegm!” said Ginny crossly. She swung
her long red hair around in a very good imitation of
Fleur and pranced across the room with her arms
held aloft like a ballerina.
“You lot had better come down quickly too,” she said
as she left.
Harry took advantage of the temporary silence to eat
more breakfast. Hermione was peering into Fred and
George’s boxes, though every now and then she cast
sideways looks at Harry. Ron, who was now helping
himself to Harry’s toast, was still gazing dreamily at
the door.
Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince – J.K. Rowling
“What’s this?” Hermione asked eventually, holding up what looked like a
small telescope.
“Dunno,” said Ron, “but if Fred and George’ve left it
here, it’s probably not ready for the joke shop yet, so
be careful.”
“Your mum said the shop’s going well,” said Harry.
“Said Fred and George have got a real flair for
business.”
“That’s an understatement,” said Ron. “They’re raking
in the Galleons! I can’t wait to see the place, we
haven’t been to Diagon Alley yet, because Mum says
Dad’s got to be there for extra security and he’s been
really busy at work, but it sounds excellent.”
“And what about Percy?” asked Harry; the thirdeldest Weasley brother had fallen out with the rest of
the family. “Is he talking to your mum and dad
again?”
“Nope,” said Ron.
“But he knows your dad was right all along now
about Voldemort being back —”
“Dumbledore says people find it far easier to forgive
others for being wrong than being right,” said
Hermione. “I heard him telling your mum, Ron.”
“Sounds like the sort of mental thing Dumbledore
would say,” said Ron.
“He’s going to be giving me private lessons this year,”
said Harry conversationally.
Ron choked on his bit of toast, and Hermione gasped.
Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince – J.K. Rowling
“You kept that quiet!” said Ron.
“I only just remembered,” said Harry honestly. “He
told me last night in your broom shed.”
“Blimey … private lessons with Dumbledore!” said
Ron, looking impressed. “I wonder why he’s … ?”
His voice tailed away. Harry saw him and Hermione
exchange looks. Harry laid down his knife and fork,
his heart beating rather fast considering that all he
was doing was sitting in bed. Dumbledore had said to
do it. … Why not now? He fixed his eyes on his fork,
which was gleaming in the sunlight streaming into his
lap, and said, “I don’t know exactly why he’s going to
be giving me lessons, but I think it must be because
of the prophecy.”
Neither Ron nor Hermione spoke. Harry had the
impression that both had frozen. He continued, still
speaking to his fork, “You know, the one they were
trying to steal at the Ministry.”
“Nobody knows what it said, though,” said Hermione
quickly. “It got smashed.”
“Although the Prophet says —” began Ron, but
Hermione said, “Shh!”
“The Prophet’s got it right,” said Harry, looking up at
them both with a great effort: Hermione seemed
frightened and Ron amazed. “That glass ball that
smashed wasn’t the only record of the prophecy. I
heard the whole thing in Dumbledore’s office, he was
the one the prophecy was made to, so he could tell
me. From what it said,” Harry took a deep breath, “it
looks like I’m the one who’s got to finish off
Voldemort. … At least, it said neither of us could live
while the other survives.”
Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince – J.K. Rowling
The three of them gazed at one another in silence for a moment. Then there
was a loud bang and Hermione
vanished behind a puff of black smoke.
“Hermione!” shouted Harry and Ron; the breakfast
tray slid to the floor with a crash.
Hermione emerged, coughing, out of the smoke,
clutching the telescope and sporting a brilliantly
purple black eye.
“I squeezed it and it — it punched me!” she gasped.
And sure enough, they now saw a tiny fist on a long
spring protruding from the end of the telescope.
“Don’t worry,” said Ron, who was plainly trying not to
laugh, “Mum’ll fix that, she’s good at healing minor
injuries —”
“Oh well, never mind that now!” said Hermione
hastily. “Harry, oh, Harry …”
She sat down on the edge of his bed again.
“We wondered, after we got back from the Ministry …
Obviously, we didn’t want to say anything to you, but
from what Lucius Malfoy said about the prophecy,
how it was about you and Voldemort, well, we
thought it might be something like this. … Oh, Harry
…” She stared at him, then whispered, “Are you
scared?”
“Not as much as I was,” said Harry. “When I first
heard it, I was … but now, it seems as though I
always knew I’d have to face him in the end. …”
“When we heard Dumbledore was collecting you in
person, we thought he might be telling you something